Allow implementations to relax anti-replay requirement (#382)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

such replay attacks, this specification requires the aggregators to detect and
filter out replayed reports.

> To detect replay attacks in a given time window, each aggregator is required to

Reviewer: I think we need to be more clear about what the "given time window" is. My reading of the arguments in #362 is that we're instructing implementations to choose a window of time relative to the instant at which a report being evaluated for anti-replay, and only check for unique report IDs within that window. Is the behavior the same regardless of time interval or fixed batch tasks? Is there a risk of the helper and leader applying inconsistent anti-replay policy, either because they construct their time windows differently or because the leader might be evaluating anti-replay at upload time, well before the helper gets a chance to do so at aggregation time? Finally, if we say nothing about how to construct the time windows, then doesn't that allow a conforming implementation to not do anti-replay checks at all?

Reviewer: I don't think so: the point of this PR is to allow aggregators to evaluate anti-replay on a narrower scope than the entire task. Bob's [argument](https://github.com/ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/issues/362#issuecomment-1301108181), I think, is that aggregators only need to look at reports that wouldn't get rejected for being too old or from too far in the future, and I think perhaps this paragraph could be written in those terms.

Author: The "given time window" refers to the window of time for which an aggregator chooses to check for replayed reports; any reports outside of that timestamp must be rejected.

Reviewer 2: Perfect. Then how about we just keep "given time window" as is, say that implementations can choose this to fit their needs, and add a line at the end of the paragraph saying "Any report that is outside this time window MUST be rejected" (or whatever). Would that work?

Author: I've pushed @chris-wood's suggestion of simply dropping discussion about the time window at that point. To @tgeoghegan point about not needing to do anti-replay for reports too far in the past or in the future, this is already premitted in {{early-input-share-validation}}.

In fact, {{early-input-share-validation}} is really the main text that matters. I think the only normative text we want to add is that anti-replay MUST be enforced per nonce, but MAY be enforced per nonce/timestamp. What do y'all think about axing this {{anti-replay}} altogether and merging this normative text into {{early-input-share-validation}}?

Reviewer 2: If we rename that section to "Input Share Validation" and promote the replay rejection step to the first thing in the list, I'd be OK with that.

Author: Going with "Report Share Validation" :)

Author: Done. I ended up going with "Input Share Validation", as @chris-wood suggested, as this better matches the language in that section.

keep track of the set of reports it has processed for a given task and that have
timestamps that fall in the time window. Reports that are replayed MUST be

> rejected during the aggreagtion sub-protocol as described in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rejected during the aggregation sub-protocol as described in
```

{{early-input-share-validation}}.

Because honest clients choose the report ID at random, it is sufficient to store
the set of IDs of processed reports. However, implementations may find it
helpful to track additional information, like the timestamp, so that the storage
used for anti-replay can be sharded efficiently.

> A malicious aggregator may attempt to force a replay by replacing the report ID
> generated by the client with a report ID its peer has not yet seen. To prevent

Reviewer: I acknowledge that I'm critiquing text that was already present and is not modified by your change but--
```suggestion
A malicious leader may attempt to force a replay by replacing the report ID
generated by the client with a report ID the helper has not yet seen. To prevent
```
Is there any reason not to be explicit about which aggregators we're talking about?

Author: I think this is useful if at some point we move to direct-upload architecture.
